weeks, and the typical symptom occurrence
from incubation period to infection takes an
average of 12.5 days.*°

6 CLINICAL DIAGNOSIS

The symptoms of COVID-19 remain very similar
to those of the other respiratory epidemics in
the past, which include SARS and MERS, but
here the range of symptoms includes mild
rhinitis to septic shock. Some intestinal
disturbances were reported with the other
epidemics, but COVID-19 was devoid of such
symptoms. When examined, unilateral or
bilateral involvement compatible with viral
pneumonia is observed in the patients, and
bilateral multiple lobular and sub-segmental
consolidation areas were observed in patients
hospitalised in the intensive care unit.
Comorbid patients showed a more severe
clinical course than predicted from previous
epidemics. Diagnosis of COVID-19 includes the
complete history of travel and touch, with
laboratory testing. It is more preferable to
choose serological screening, which can help to
analyse even the asymptomatic infections;
several serological tests are in progress for
SARS-CoV-2. 1 2°