help us to control the spread of this virus. However,
this is both challenging as well as time-consuming
due to the present extent of infection (226). The
current scenario demands effective implementation
of vigorous prevention and control strategies owing
to the prospect of COVID-19 for nosocomial
infections (68). Follow-ups of infected patients by
telephone on day 7 and day 14 are advised to avoid
any further unintentional spread or nosocomial
transmission (312). The availability of public data
sets provided by independent analytical teams will
act as robust evidence that would guide us in
designing interventions against the COVID-19
outbreak. Newspaper reports and social media can be
used to analyze and reconstruct the progression of an
outbreak. They can help us to obtain detailed patient-
level data in the early stages of an outbreak (227).
Immediate travel restrictions imposed by several
countries might have contributed significantly to
preventing the spread of SARS-CoV-2 globally (89,
228). Following the outbreak, a temporary ban was
imposed on the wildlife trade, keeping in mind the
possible role played by wild animal species in the
origin of SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 (147). Making a
permanent and bold decision on the trade of wild
animal species is necessary to prevent the possibility