6.3 Serological testing

Serological surveys are also considered to be
one of the most effective ones in facilitating
outbreak investigation and it also helps us to
derive a retrospective assessment of the
disease by estimating the attack rate.°*
According to the recent literature, paired serum
samples can also help clinicians to diagnose
COVID-19 in case of false negative results in
NAAT essays.” The literature also declared that
the commercial and non-commercial serological
tests are under consideration in order to
support the practising clinicians by assisting
them in diagnosis. Similarly, there are studies
published on COVID-19 which are comprised of
the serological data on clinical samples.?° °°

6.4 Viral sequencing

Apart from confirming the presence of virus in
the specimens, viral sequencing is also quite
useful in monitoring the viral genomic
mutations, which plays a very significant role in
influencing the performance of the medical
countermeasures inclusive of the diagnostic
test. Genomic sequencing of the virus can also
help further in developing several studies
related to molecular epidemiology.°7