14 ANTIVIRAL THERAPY

COVID-19 is an infectious disease caused by
SARS-CoV-2, which is also termed the novel
coronavirus and is diligently associated with the
SARS virus. The Ministry of Science and
Technology from the People’s Republic of China
declared three potential antiviral medicines
suitable for treating COVID-19. Those three
medicines are, namely, Favilavir, chloroquine
phosphate and remdesivir. A clinical trial was
conducted to test the efficacy of those three
drugs, and the results proved that out of the
three medicines above only Favilavir is effective
in treating the patients with novel coronavirus.
The remaining two drugs were effective in
treating malaria.°7

Likewise a study carried out in the United States
by the National Institute of Health proved that
remdesivir is effective in treating the Middle
East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-
CoV), which is also a type of coronavirus that
was transmitted from monkeys. The drug
remdesivir was also used in the United States
for treating the patients with COVID-19. There
has been a proposal to use the combination of
protease inhibitors lopinavir-ritonavir for
treating the patients affected by COVID-19.°%