in the epidemic strain (104). lransmission Can also
occur directly from the reservoir host to humans
without RBD adaptations. The bat coronavirus that is
currently in circulation maintains specific “poised”
spike proteins that facilitate human infection without
the requirement of any mutations or adaptations
(105). Altogether, different species of bats carry a
massive number of coronaviruses around the world
(106).

The high plasticity in receptor usage, along with
the feasibility of adaptive mutation and
recombination, may result in frequent interspecies
transmission of coronavirus from bats to animals and
humans (106). The pathogenesis of most bat
coronaviruses is unknown, as most of these viruses
are not isolated and studied (4). Hedgehog
coronavirus HKU31, a Betacoronavirus, has been
identified from amur hedgehogs in China. Studies
show that hedgehogs are the reservoir of
Betacoronavirus, and there is evidence of
recombination (107).

The current scientific evidence available on
MERS infection suggests that the significant
reservoir host, as well as the animal source of MERS
infection in humans, is the dromedary camels (97).
The infected dromedary camels may not show any

‘ible ¢; © infact king it challengi