8 PREVENTION

The WHO and other agencies such as the CDC
have published protective measures to mitigate
the spread of COVID-19. This involves frequent
hand washing with handwash containing 60% of
alcohol and soap for at least 20 seconds.
Another important measure is avoiding close
contact with sick people and keeping a social
distance of 1 metre always to everyone who is
coughing and sneezing. Not touching the nose,
eyes and mouth was also suggested. While
coughing or sneezing, covering the mouth and
nose with a cloth/tissue or the bent elbow is
advised. Staying at home is recommended for
those who are sick, and wearing a facial mask is
advised when going out among people.
Furthermore, it is recommended to clean and
sterilise frequently touched surfaces such as
phones and doorknobs on a daily basis.째' 째7
Staying at home as much as possible is
advisable for those who are at higher risk for
severe illness, to minimise the risk of exposure
to COVID-19 during outbreaks.째째