few precautionary measures owing to the unknown
nature of this novel virus (36, 189). Presently, the
main course of treatment for severely affected
SARS-CoV-2 patients admitted to hospitals includes
mechanical ventilation, intensive care unit (ICU)
admittance, and symptomatic and _ supportive
therapies. Additionally, RNA synthesis inhibitors
(lamivudine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate),
remdesivir, neuraminidase inhibitors, peptide (EK 1),
anti-inflammatory drugs, abidol, and Chinese
traditional medicine (Lianhuagingwen â€” and
ShuFengJieDu capsules) could aid in COVID-19
treatment. However, further clinical trials are being
carried out concerning their safety and efficacy (7).
It might require months to a year(s) to design and
develop effective drugs, therapeutics, and vaccines
against COVID-19, with adequate evaluation and
approval from regulatory bodies and moving to the
bulk production of many millions of doses at
commercial levels to meet the timely demand of
mass populations across the globe (9). Continuous
efforts are also warranted to identify and assess
viable drugs and immunotherapeutic regimens that
revealed proven potency in combating other viral
agents similar to SARS-CoV-2.

COVID-19 patients showing severe signs are